Now let's walk through the conversation
flow.
This is not a telemarketer read-off.
Open with this exact line.
Catch me up to speed. Where are you at in
the process right now?
That line works because it gets people
talking without feeling interrogated.
It signals that you are not starting from
zero.
From there, ask, how have the other
investors treated you?
And what did your real estate
agents say? Assume they have explored other
options.
That assumption lowers their guard and pulls
real intel without sounding nosy.
A seller who says the other investors were
all lowballers is telling you exactly how to
position yourself as different.
Next shift to timeline.
If a seller pushes for price early, reframe
it.
Timing and certainty matter as much as
price.
Do not give your number first.
Say you are waiting on your partner and ask,
do you and your family have a number you
are looking for? That is how you extract
their price anchor without giving up leverage.
You learn where they are before you show
your hand.
Then use the cash road to open the door.
If I were making a cash offer, I would
probably be around X.
Is that where other offers are?
That line is where you are.
A seller says they have another offer on the
table and it is higher than yours.
Do not panic and do not chase.
Ask, is that offer cash or are there
contingencies attached?
When you can close in two weeks with no
contingencies, that certainty has real dollar
value that a higher number with strings
attached does not.
Make sure they understand what they are
actually comparing.
Another common scenario is the seller who
goes quiet after a good first call.
Do not read that as rejection.
Call back and say, hey, I was thinking about
your situation and I wanted to share one
idea. Bring something new, a different
structure, a solution to the logistic problem
they mentioned, or just a genuine check-in.
Most deals that close after multiple touch
points close because someone stayed
consistent without being pushy.
The centerpiece of every call is the thought
experiment.
Help them write the ending of the movie,
then reverse engineer the steps.
Let's pretend we work together and close in
a few weeks.
Where are you sleeping the first night after
closing?
What is the toughest part about getting
there?
Painting that end state surfaces obstacles
you can actually solve, like
post-possession, moving help, or payoff timing.
When their picture of the future is cloudy,
fear wins and deals stall.
When you make the logistics clear, you
become their person.
I might not be your buyer and that is okay.
If I am not the right fit, I will point you
to the right option.
That move earns you permission to present
options without pressure.
Now let's cover what to do when a seller's
number is too high.
Do not fight it. Reframe, test reality, and
invite terms.
Start by aligning. Totally get why you want
that number.
If I were you, I would want the most too.
That keeps status even and avoids a debate.
Then shift to timeline.
If we solved this in the next 30 to 90 days,
what needs to be true for you to feel like
this was a win?
When they tell you why that date matters,
you have found the real lever.
Now you can create value instead of arguing
over price.
Bring the cash lane in to gather truth.
If I were making a cash offer, I would
probably be around X.
Is that where others are?
If they push back or say they owe more, that
is exactly what you need to hear to
structure it correctly.
And be direct about how you operate.
Most buyers will tell you any number to get
a contract, then come back for reductions
later.
I would rather give you a number I can
actually perform on.
Certainty is a form of value, and it is
something most buyers cannot offer.
If they still want retail, pivot to terms.
I can come up toward your price if you will
give me terms.
Do you want me to explain what I mean by
terms?
Price is a headline. Terms are the story.
When terms fit their real-life needs, price
intensity drops.
If they say they do not know their number,
extract it without pressure.
Imagine you did know. What would that look
like?
Or use the Craigslist example.
Nobody lists a car with, make me an offer,
because the first number just gets shopped.
Same with houses. Once they feel you are
being straight with them, they will give you a
target.
Run the thought experiment again here.
Let's pretend we close together.
Where are you sleeping the first night after
closing?
How much cash is in your pocket?
What is the toughest part of getting there?
Once the end is vivid, you reverse engineer
from there.
That is where post-possession, moving help,
or payoff timing often matter more than
price.
And those are chips you can trade that are
not dollars.
If the gap stays too wide and they will not
consider terms, de-position gracefully.
I might not be your buyer at that price, and
that is okay.
I would rather point you to the right path
than promise something I cannot perform on.
You keep the relationship, and many of those
sellers circle back after they test the
market and realize your certainty was the
real value all along.
And that's a wrap on Conversation Flow.
Great work sticking with me through this
one.
I encourage you to revisit this module
frequently for a recap of our discussions.
The script will guide you through the flow.
But I hope this module has clarified the
reasoning behind our responses.
Practice the flow until it feels like yours.
Next stop, the close. I'll see you there.